welcome to this special edition the
fearless children in Africa will focus
on the use of child soldiers in Africa
I'm Paul and daeho children aya precious
part of the fabric of any society they
are the building blocks of future
generations yet they are used and abused
in the most atrocious of manners several
African nations with a history of
unstable governments and long-standing
civil wars Apetit reactivity of the use
of Turan world has degenerated to an
extreme law mankind now uses and abuses
its most innocent and defenseless of
treasure its own children Magna mistake
what in every form fought by men or
women of any age is wrong but the use of
children is perhaps the most appalling
part of was her a Native Nations
Children's Fund or UNICEF believes that
up to 60% of the um fighters in Africa
are under the age of 18 how does war
look like in the eyes of a child Sonia
well the reason you see why children are
used so massively Wars today is
precisely because they are innocent they
are malleable you can shape them into
the most deadly instruments of war but
in too many countries in Africa
especially country's going through
conflict where are young people they are
holding guns they're in battlefields
they're learning to kill and be killed
more often than not children are more
willing to commit atrocities than adults
because they are less developed mentally
and emotionally they are often tired
with drugs and alcohol to take away the
fear of fighting what made you to become
a child soldier I think one thing that
happens during the context of war for my
experience of it is that first of all
the child loses what it's there to them
which is community family and everything
they had known as a child and then once
that is done in the landscape they're
known as the child has change it's
rendered with violence and everything
and so when they're pressed into this
conflict even though they are resistant
in the beginning so this group's become
sort of like your surrogate family that
you want to be a part of and with the
constant violence the use of drugs and
the lost of hope for anything beyond
this to be possible this world becomes
your reality and you accept it it is
estimated that they are over 300
thousand child soldiers worldwide and
the development of light weapons such as
the ak-47 means that children as young
as 8 are strong enough to be armed the
tragic situation of a professional army
encountering militias made up of
children is an initial shock but the
soldiers must do their job purpose of
this documentary is to call attention to
the use of child soldiers in Africa you
and I can make a difference